---
layout:     post
title:      "Word of 2016: Light"
description: Cultivating a sense of levity and flexibility that doesn’t come naturally.
categories:
 - Life and health
image: word-of-2016-light.jpg
---

I’ve gone into 2016 with a *lightness* I’m not used to and it feels incredible.

My nature: I’m goofy and cheerful, but I’m an uptight, overplanning, overworrier. Anxiety often gets the best of me.

My habits: I’ve spent the past few years bettering my career, relationship, and mental health at the expense of my sluggish physical health.

My desires: I admire those who are determined yet easygoing, who spend energy where it counts and ignore the rest. I long for a sense of practiced effortlessness, sprezzatura.

Flourishing without overflowing. [Well-fed](http://rachelwcole.com/) and full.

I decided at the beginning of the year I would focus the next twelve months on becoming *light*.

Cultivating a sense of levity and flexibility that doesn’t come naturally.

Feeling more at home in my body and less weighed down.

Delighting those around me like a ball of sunshine (though I’ve been told I’m already great at that one.)

I want to learn to face both tiny and towering troubles with grace. Adaptable, affable. My *lightness* will be flexible where my heaviness is fearful. Not necessarily seeking out change, but welcoming upon arrival.

I want a heavy savings and a *light* debt, financially and emotionally.

I want a richer relationship with my body. Sure, fewer in pounds and inches, but I will only be measuring by feeling. I’ll grow stronger and *lighter*, mentally and physically.

Relieving & lifting myself from myself. Not shrinking to take up less space, but shedding insecurities to show off more of myself. No longer a burden, but a glow.
